Both straight ahead and pose to pose are two ways of animating and both have the benefits and drawbacks.
So to take an example that we've already seen in action where we've got let's say a shelf that some
of it's going to fall off and maybe a ball and it will bounce and land on our our box here are just
me in a box a little taller.
So these are solid objects.
The shelf etc. Now with Straight ahead it is very good for unpredictable things like flames smoke water.
It works really well because it relies on the previous position to evolve our animation.
Now in some cases if let's say the ball was going to drop on to the ground and then as it drops on to
the ground it just goes into a million pieces.
We won't necessarily know where those pieces go so it can be difficult to make them with pose to pose
which we'll see in a few moments.
Now you can mix the two with pose to pose And straight ahead.
So this isn't an oar.
It's not one or the other.
You use whichever one best suits the situation you're currently involved in and you can certainly if
this ball had more than one part do some of it with post to pose and some of it was straight to head.
So what is straight ahead.
Well straight ahead is where if we were following this path down we would draw each consecutive frame
how we thought it should look as it falls onto the ground splats and comes back up again and we hit
the wall.
So this is an example where we can you straight ahead and when you're experienced you could probably
get away with doing it this way.
But what you can end up with is things wibberley wobbling their way down instead of falling in a nice
arc.
In this case or indeed hitting objects that they shouldn't have in the first place and that can ruin
the sense of the animation.
Now if I just undo some of those frames there with pose to pose it works slightly differently.
And in fact I'm going to use some colours for this post to pose works by.
First of all deciding where you going to start and then where you're going to end.
These are called your keys.
These are your key frames.
Now arguably there's one down the bottom here as well.
I'm going to leave that for the next one.
The next ones are called extremes.
Okay.
Now these are the extreme positions.
Your work is going to be in.
Thank you windows for opening that up.
So in this case there's going to be an extreme on its way down as it elongates have we using squash
and stretch.
There's going to be an extreme and a key kind of both down at the bottom here because that's at the
lowest point and then we need to make sure that it comes back up and over again so we can draw all that
in here as it goes round.
So those are the extremes that would go in to actually go through the next one.
And I don't never going to have enough space to scribble this is called a breakdown.
Now break downs just go in between these particular frames and they allow us a bit more freedom.
Now you probably noticed here we are really doing a pose.
So we've got post a pose we've got the two red ones then in between those two red ones we've added three
green ones now in between the green ones we can add some blue ones.
So we're really doing pose to pose with in pose to pose and then of course afterwards you could go in
and fill in the bits in between as you so wish now are not being accurate with these drawings but you
can add these bits in-between now.
There's obvious points here as I'm sketching and I'll just highlight them.
We've got this ball here it's dramatically small I've not maintained volume.
Hopefully I've got the point across that you can have these bits in-between.
So we have our keys our extremes our break down and then the final one is in between.
So it's like Po ception you're putting more poses within those poses to make the animations smoother.
Now the great thing about this is we have the most control we know exactly where we're going to start
and exactly where we're going to end which is incredibly useful.
We know the whole action early on.
So by the time we had reached the point where we had these bits of information we know that the animation
could work and therefore it's a very lean way of working you not going ahead drawing in all the individual
ones and you can imagine if it was something a bit more complicated than a ball you know.
If we ended up here and hitting that wall how big a really rubbish animation you'd have to redo all
of that work.
Order to sort it out.
And that can be a real pain.
We really want the best workflow.
That means we can get something out in a very quick manner.
It helps keep the consistent movement throughout as we go through.
And most importantly And I'll reiterate again it helps catch any problems early on.
Now one final example that we could do here and we'll cover this much in much more detail later on is
we've we can make the ball dropping and coming back up again using pose to pose now.
If the ball had something else attached to it perhaps it was a ball and chain for instance and just
trying to think of a colour here that will be suitable.
I'll get rid of that line so we can actually draw on it.
I'll just draw in black.
That's absolutely fine.
Now let's go blue and go blue.
Okay.
So as it's falling down we can actually have let's say a trail down there and we're animating this one
kind of straight ahead because its previous position is reliant on where it was before.
We can't necessarily predict where this blue thing is going to be.
In fact in many cases this is two little frames to do the straight ahead but we can't really predict
where this is going to be as it moves forward.
We really need to do each frame in between.
And then we start to get an idea as we're going where that particular string attached to our ball is
going to be.
Now this is a challenge of course when you've got so few frames so we definitely need our keys our extremes
and our break down before we can start doing straight ahead part within our animation.
Now of course it's time for a challenge.
I'd like you to go ahead and write down the primary method that you would use for the following.
Now of course I say the primary method because you could use both methods.
So pick between post to pose or straight ahead how would you go ahead doing fire.
How about a bouncing ball.
Jumping a water splash.
A door opening.
And finally a frown to a grin on her face.
And I'd like you to go ahead.
Pause a video now and give that a go.
Hello everyone and welcome back.
Let's go through the primary methods that I would use for the following.
So fire I would use straight ahead.
It's an evolving thing.
A You don't really know how it's going to end up and it can be very difficult trying to go from one
post to another with in between is trying to get their fire is a naturally progressive thing it's a
physical entity.
I would recommend going straight to head our bouncing ball as we've demonstrated an example that is
going to be best done with a pose to pose.
Now there will be some instances where straight ahead may be more appropriate.
But in general I would pick.
Post Post jumping.
I would also pick post to post because you need to know where the character is jumping from to where
they're jumping to.
And this is not only if you're doing them actually moving or if you're doing a static jump animation.
It's good to know the stages that they'll be going through and then filling in in between a water splash.
Well that is going to be straight ahead for me.
A door opening.
Now I would do this pose to pose as well as a definite sequence of a door opening you know exactly where
it's going to be when it's open and where it shuts and I found to grin.
Now this is kind of an organic one.
Suppose the pose would allow you to have where the frown starts where the grin will end up being and
then you can fill in in between.
Again you can mix and match when you.
I would certainly do pose to pose and then post those within that some transition.
And then if I needed a bit of nuance with the grin or the frown then certainly a bit of straight ahead
in that may help as well.
Now if you've got answers different to this I would love to hear your comments as to why you picked
something different over the discussions.
Now there is not a right and wrong these are just my recommendations from my experience.
You may decide when your doing an animation that that particular instance will be different and that's
it for this lecture and I will see you in the next one.